What is an RDS instance?
Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS) is a web service that that allows you to quickly c
reate a relational database instance in the cloud. Amazon RDS manages the database instance on your
 behalf by performing backups, handling failover, and maintaining the database software. For read-heavy
 applications, you can launch Read Replicas which are RDS instances that serve as copies of the source 
master database for handling read-requests. You can attach up to five (5) Read Replicas to a source DB instance.
The Instances page lists the existing RDS Instances in the selected AWS region. Clicking on an existing

RDS Instance displays the details for that instance.
Fields
Name - unique name/identifier for the RDS instance.
Engine - The version of the MySQL or Oracle engine of the RDS Instance.
RDS Subnet Group - The group of RDS Subnets for the VPC.
Availability Zone - The availability zone into which the RDS Instance will be created and launched.
Multi-AZ - Indicates that the RDS Instance will be used in a multiple availability zone configuration.
Instance class - If you selected a different instance type, the existing instance will be terminated and 
new RDS instance will be launched.
Storage - storage size in GBs for the instance that will be allocated for storing data.
Source instance - If the instance is a Read Replica, it will list the name of the source DB instance.
Status - The status of the RDS Instance (creating, modifying, available, rebooting, deleting). 
An RDS Instance will only be accessible when its status is 'available'.



 
What are RDS Interfaces?
 The RDS interfaces are a way to access the RDS service we create. After the creation and configuration
 of the RDS service there is a need of accessing the data, uploading data to this database and running
 some other program which should be able to connect to the database. Such requirements of accessing and
 manipulating data by end users of the database and not necessarily the AWS account holder which created
 the database needs these interfaces.

What is Amazon Aurora?
Amazon Aurora is a type of relational database built for the cloud that is compatible 
with MySQL and PostgreSQL. It is five times faster than the MySQL database and three times faster than 
the PostgreSQL database. This hybrid database type is a perfect combination of the performance and availability 
of traditional databases with the simplicity and cost-effectiveness of the open-source database. This database is  fully 
managed by the Amazon RDS so tasks like hardware provisioning, database setup, patching, and backups are automated.

What is an AWS Cluster?
An AWS Cluster consists of one or more RDS instances and a cluster volume to manage the data for the RDS instances. 
Aurora cluster is the popular one which creates two instances in a cluster by default. 
One instance is used to write while the other is used for reading operation. But you can change this configuration 
as you wish.

What is the work of Amazon RDS?
When a user wants to set up a relational database then Amazon RDS is used. It provisions the infrastructure 
capacity that a user requests to install the database software. Once the database is set up and functional RDS 
automates the tasks like patching up of the software, taking the backup of the data and management of synchronous 
data replication with automatic failover.

What is the purpose of standby RDS instance?
The main purpose of launching a standby RDS instance is to prevent the infrastructure failure (in case failure occurs) 
so it is stored in a different availability zone which is a totally different infrastructure physically and independent.
